README.md, before:

# 🚀 OpenClaw Azure

**One-click deployment of your personal AI assistant to Azure**

Deploy your own private OpenClaw AI assistant powered by Anthropic Claude on Azure Container Apps. Perfect for non-technical users who want their own AI assistant without the complexity.

## ✨ What You Get

- 🤖 **Private AI Bot** for Discord, Telegram, Slack, or WhatsApp powered by Claude AI
- 🧠 **Multi-AI Support** - Anthropic Claude (required) + optional OpenAI, Groq, Cohere
- 🎙️ **Voice Features** - Optional ElevenLabs integration for text-to-speech
- 🔒 **Secure** - All API keys stored in Azure Key Vault with enhanced validation
- 💰 **Cost-Optimized** - Approximately $20-30/month
- ⚡ **One-Click Deploy** - No coding or DevOps knowledge required
- 📊 **Persistent Storage** - Your conversations and data are saved
- 🔗 **Extensible** - GitHub, Notion, and webhook integrations available

## 🎯 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

You'll need:
1. **Azure Account** ([sign up free](https://azure.microsoft.com/free))
2. **Messaging Platform Token** - Choose at least one:
   - **Discord Bot Token** ([setup guide](#discord-setup))
   - **Telegram Bot Token** ([setup guide](#telegram-setup)) 
   - **Slack Bot Token** (see documentation)
   - **WhatsApp Business Token** (see documentation)
3. **Anthropic API Key** ([get yours here](https://console.anthropic.com)) - **Required**

### Optional Enhancements
- **OpenAI API Key** - For GPT models and image generation
- **ElevenLabs API Key** - For text-to-speech and voice cloning
- **GitHub Token** - For repository interactions
- **Notion API Key** - For workspace integrations
- **Groq API Key** - For fast AI inference
- **Cohere API Key** - For additional AI models
- **Brave Search API** - For enhanced web search

### Deploy to Azure

<a href="https://portal.azure.com/#create/Microsoft.Template/uri/https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Faerolalit%2Fopenclaw-azure%2Fmain%2Fazuredeploy.json" target="_blank"><img src="https://aka.ms/deploytoazurebutton" /></a>

**That's it!** 🎉

---

## 📋 Setup Guides

### Discord Setup

1. **Create a Discord Application**
   - Go to [Discord Developer Portal](https://discord.com/developers/applications)
   - Click "New Application"
   - Give it a name (e.g., "My OpenClaw Assistant")

2. **Create a Bot**
   - Go to "Bot" tab
   - Click "Add Bot"
   - Under "Token" section, click "Copy"
   - **Save this token** - you'll need it for deployment

3. **Set Permissions**
   - Go to "OAuth2" > "URL Generator"
   - Select scopes: `bot`, `applications.commands`
   - Select permissions: `Send Messages`, `Read Message History`, `Use Slash Commands`
   - Copy the generated URL and open it to add the bot to your Discord server

### Telegram Setup (Alternative to Discord)

**Easier setup - recommended for beginners!**

1. **Start Chat with BotFather**
   - Open Telegram and search for `@BotFather`
   - Start a chat and type `/start`

2. **Create Your Bot**
   - Type `/newbot`
   - Give your bot a display name (e.g., "My AI Assistant")
   - Give your bot a username ending in "bot" (e.g., `MyAssistantBot`)

3. **Get Your Token**
   - Copy the token BotFather gives you
   - Format: `123456789:ABCdef1234567890abcdef1234567890ABC`
   - **Save this token** - you'll need it for deployment

4. **Configure Privacy (Important!)**
   - Type `/mybots` → Select your bot → "Bot Settings" → "Group Privacy" → "Disable"
   - This lets your bot see all messages (not just mentions)

### Anthropic API Key

**Method 1: Console (Recommended)**
1. Go to [Anthropic Console](https://console.anthropic.com)
2. Sign up/Sign in  
3. Go to "API Keys" section
4. Click "Create Key"
5. **Save this key** (starts with `sk-ant-api03-`)

**Method 2: Claude CLI**  
1. Install Claude CLI: `npm install -g @anthropic-ai/claude-cli`
2. Run: `claude setup-token`
3. **Save this key** (starts with `sk-ant-oat01-`)

Both token types work with OpenClaw!

---

## 💰 Cost Breakdown

Estimated monthly costs (US East region):

| Component | Cost | Description |
|-----------|------|-------------|
| Container Apps | $15-25 | Main application hosting |
| Storage Account | $1-2 | Bot workspace and files |
| Key Vault | $1 | Secure secret storage |
| Log Analytics | $2-3 | Monitoring and logs |
| **Total** | **~$20-30** | Varies by usage |

💡 **Cost Tips:**
- Use 7-day log retention for lower costs
- Choose 1 CPU / 2GB memory for light usage
- Monitor usage in Azure Portal

---

## 🔧 Deployment Parameters

The deployment form is now organized into clear sections:

### 🤖 Bot Configuration
| Parameter | Description | Example |
|-----------|-------------|---------|
| **App Name** | Short name for your bot (3-12 chars) | `mybot` |
| **Confirm Tokens** | Required safety check | ✅ Check this box |

### 🤝 Messaging Platform Tokens (At least one required)
| Parameter | Description | Example |
|-----------|-------------|---------|
| **Discord Token** | From Discord Developer Portal | `MTEyMz...` |
| **Telegram Token** | From Telegram @BotFather | `123456789:ABC...` |
| **Slack Token** | From Slack app (optional) | `xoxb-...` |
| **WhatsApp Token** | Business API token (optional) | Various formats |

### 🧠 AI/LLM API Keys
| Parameter | Description | Example |
|-----------|-------------|---------|
| **Anthropic Key** | **REQUIRED** - From Anthropic Console | `sk-ant-api03-...` |
| **OpenAI Key** | Optional - For GPT models | `sk-...` |
| **Groq Key** | Optional - For fast inference | `gsk_...` |
| **Cohere Key** | Optional - Additional AI models | Various formats |

### 🌐 External Service Tokens (All optional)
| Parameter | Description | Example |
|-----------|-------------|---------|
| **ElevenLabs Key** | For text-to-speech | Various formats |
| **Brave Search Key** | Enhanced web search | Various formats |
| **GitHub Token** | Repository interactions | `ghp_...` |
| **Notion Key** | Workspace integrations | `secret_...` |

### 🔗 Gateway & Federation (Advanced)
| Parameter | Description | Example |
|-----------|-------------|---------|
| **Gateway Token** | Multi-instance federation | Various formats |
| **Webhook Secret** | Incoming webhook auth | Various formats |

### ⚙️ Infrastructure Settings
| Parameter | Description | Example |
|-----------|-------------|---------|
| **CPU** | Container CPU allocation | `1.0` (recommended) |
| **Memory** | Container memory allocation | `2Gi` (recommended) |
| **Log Retention** | How long to keep logs | `30` days |

**⚠️ Important:** 
- At least one messaging platform token is required
- Anthropic API key is required and must start with `sk-ant-`
- All other tokens are optional but enable additional features

---

## 📖 After Deployment

### Check if it's working

**For Discord:**
1. **Find your bot** in Discord - it should show as "Online"
2. **Send a message** like "Hello!" - it should respond

**For Telegram:**
1. **Open your bot** in Telegram (search for @YourBotName)
2. **Send a message** like "Hello!" - it should respond

**Both platforms:**
3. **Check logs** using the Container App URL from deployment outputs

### Troubleshooting

**Discord bot appears offline?**
- Wait 2-3 minutes for startup
- Check Container App logs in Azure Portal
- Verify Discord token is correct
- Make sure bot has proper permissions in your Discord server

**Telegram bot doesn't respond?**
- Make sure you disabled "Group Privacy" for your bot (see setup guide)
- Try typing `/start` to your bot first
- Check that the token format is correct (numbers:letters)

**Bot doesn't respond on either platform?**
- Check Anthropic API key is valid
- Check Container App logs for errors
- Verify bot tokens are entered correctly

**Form validation errors?**
- **Discord Token**: Should be ~59 characters, starts with `MT` or `MQ`
- **Telegram Token**: Should be ~45 characters, format `123456789:ABCdef...`
- **Slack Token**: Should start with `xoxb-` for bot tokens
- **Anthropic Key**: **REQUIRED** - Must start with `sk-ant-` (api03-, oat01-, etc.)
- **OpenAI Key**: Should start with `sk-` (if provided)
- **Groq Key**: Should start with `gsk_` (if provided) 
- **GitHub Token**: Should start with `ghp_` (if provided)
- **Notion Key**: Should start with `secret_` (if provided)
- **⚠️ Must check confirmation box** and provide at least one messaging platform token
- If you see validation errors, check the "Errors" panel on the right →

**Deployment failed?**
- Check all required fields are filled
- **Ensure you provided at least one bot token** (Discord or Telegram)
- Ensure app name is 3-12 characters, letters/numbers only
- Try a different Azure region

---

## 🛠 Advanced Usage

### Accessing Your Bot's Web Interface
After deployment, you'll get a Container App URL. This provides:
- Real-time logs
- Health status
- Performance metrics

### Updating Your Bot
- Redeploy with the same parameters to get latest updates
- Your data and configuration will be preserved

### Backup and Restore
Your bot's data is stored in Azure Storage. To backup:
1. Download files from the storage account
2. Redeploy if needed and upload files back

### Token Organization
The deployment template now features improved organization:
- **Visual grouping** with clear sections and emoji headers
- **Enhanced validation** with format checking for all token types
- **Comprehensive support** for 10+ services out of the box
- **Security-first design** with all secrets stored in Azure Key Vault
- **Future-proof structure** for easy addition of new integrations

See [TOKEN-ORGANIZATION.md](./TOKEN-ORGANIZATION.md) for detailed documentation.

---

## 🤝 Support

- 🐛 **Bug Reports**: [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/aerolalit/openclaw-azure/issues)
- 💬 **Questions**: [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/aerolalit/openclaw-azure/discussions)
- 📖 **Documentation**: [Wiki](https://github.com/aerolalit/openclaw-azure/wiki)

---

## 📄 License

MIT License - feel free to fork and customize!

## ⭐ Contributing

We welcome contributions! Whether it's:
- 🐛 Bug fixes
- 📖 Documentation improvements  
- ✨ New features
- 💡 Ideas and suggestions

---

**Made with ❤️ for the AI community**

*Want to make AI assistants accessible to everyone, not just developers.*

Commit message:

📖 Add comprehensive troubleshooting guide
✨ New TROUBLESHOOTING.md covers:
- ✅ ARM template JSON syntax error fix
- 🔐 Token validation requirements
- 🚀 Deployment failure solutions
- 🤖 Bot connectivity issues
- 📋 Form validation errors
- 🔍 Log access and diagnostics
- ❓ FAQ section

📚 Updated README.md:
- Added troubleshooting section reference
- Quick fix for JSON syntax error
- Better support links organization

This should help users resolve common issues quickly without
needing to create GitHub issues for basic problems.

README.md, after:

# 🚀 OpenClaw Azure

**One-click deployment of your personal AI assistant to Azure**

Deploy your own private OpenClaw AI assistant powered by Anthropic Claude on Azure Container Apps. Perfect for non-technical users who want their own AI assistant without the complexity.

## ✨ What You Get

- 🤖 **Private AI Bot** for Discord, Telegram, Slack, or WhatsApp powered by Claude AI
- 🧠 **Multi-AI Support** - Anthropic Claude (required) + optional OpenAI, Groq, Cohere
- 🎙️ **Voice Features** - Optional ElevenLabs integration for text-to-speech
- 🔒 **Secure** - All API keys stored in Azure Key Vault with enhanced validation
- 💰 **Cost-Optimized** - Approximately $20-30/month
- ⚡ **One-Click Deploy** - No coding or DevOps knowledge required
- 📊 **Persistent Storage** - Your conversations and data are saved
- 🔗 **Extensible** - GitHub, Notion, and webhook integrations available

## 🎯 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

You'll need:
1. **Azure Account** ([sign up free](https://azure.microsoft.com/free))
2. **Messaging Platform Token** - Choose at least one:
   - **Discord Bot Token** ([setup guide](#discord-setup))
   - **Telegram Bot Token** ([setup guide](#telegram-setup)) 
   - **Slack Bot Token** (see documentation)
   - **WhatsApp Business Token** (see documentation)
3. **Anthropic API Key** ([get yours here](https://console.anthropic.com)) - **Required**

### Optional Enhancements
- **OpenAI API Key** - For GPT models and image generation
- **ElevenLabs API Key** - For text-to-speech and voice cloning
- **GitHub Token** - For repository interactions
- **Notion API Key** - For workspace integrations
- **Groq API Key** - For fast AI inference
- **Cohere API Key** - For additional AI models
- **Brave Search API** - For enhanced web search

### Deploy to Azure

<a href="https://portal.azure.com/#create/Microsoft.Template/uri/https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Faerolalit%2Fopenclaw-azure%2Fmain%2Fazuredeploy.json" target="_blank"><img src="https://aka.ms/deploytoazurebutton" /></a>

**That's it!** 🎉

---

## 📋 Setup Guides

### Discord Setup

1. **Create a Discord Application**
   - Go to [Discord Developer Portal](https://discord.com/developers/applications)
   - Click "New Application"
   - Give it a name (e.g., "My OpenClaw Assistant")

2. **Create a Bot**
   - Go to "Bot" tab
   - Click "Add Bot"
   - Under "Token" section, click "Copy"
   - **Save this token** - you'll need it for deployment

3. **Set Permissions**
   - Go to "OAuth2" > "URL Generator"
   - Select scopes: `bot`, `applications.commands`
   - Select permissions: `Send Messages`, `Read Message History`, `Use Slash Commands`
   - Copy the generated URL and open it to add the bot to your Discord server

### Telegram Setup (Alternative to Discord)

**Easier setup - recommended for beginners!**

1. **Start Chat with BotFather**
   - Open Telegram and search for `@BotFather`
   - Start a chat and type `/start`

2. **Create Your Bot**
   - Type `/newbot`
   - Give your bot a display name (e.g., "My AI Assistant")
   - Give your bot a username ending in "bot" (e.g., `MyAssistantBot`)

3. **Get Your Token**
   - Copy the token BotFather gives you
   - Format: `123456789:ABCdef1234567890abcdef1234567890ABC`
   - **Save this token** - you'll need it for deployment

4. **Configure Privacy (Important!)**
   - Type `/mybots` → Select your bot → "Bot Settings" → "Group Privacy" → "Disable"
   - This lets your bot see all messages (not just mentions)

### Anthropic API Key

**Method 1: Console (Recommended)**
1. Go to [Anthropic Console](https://console.anthropic.com)
2. Sign up/Sign in  
3. Go to "API Keys" section
4. Click "Create Key"
5. **Save this key** (starts with `sk-ant-api03-`)

**Method 2: Claude CLI**  
1. Install Claude CLI: `npm install -g @anthropic-ai/claude-cli`
2. Run: `claude setup-token`
3. **Save this key** (starts with `sk-ant-oat01-`)

Both token types work with OpenClaw!

---

## 💰 Cost Breakdown

Estimated monthly costs (US East region):

| Component | Cost | Description |
|-----------|------|-------------|
| Container Apps | $15-25 | Main application hosting |
| Storage Account | $1-2 | Bot workspace and files |
| Key Vault | $1 | Secure secret storage |
| Log Analytics | $2-3 | Monitoring and logs |
| **Total** | **~$20-30** | Varies by usage |

💡 **Cost Tips:**
- Use 7-day log retention for lower costs
- Choose 1 CPU / 2GB memory for light usage
- Monitor usage in Azure Portal

---

## 🔧 Deployment Parameters

The deployment form is now organized into clear sections:

### 🤖 Bot Configuration
| Parameter | Description | Example |
|-----------|-------------|---------|
| **App Name** | Short name for your bot (3-12 chars) | `mybot` |
| **Confirm Tokens** | Required safety check | ✅ Check this box |

### 🤝 Messaging Platform Tokens (At least one required)
| Parameter | Description | Example |
|-----------|-------------|---------|
| **Discord Token** | From Discord Developer Portal | `MTEyMz...` |
| **Telegram Token** | From Telegram @BotFather | `123456789:ABC...` |
| **Slack Token** | From Slack app (optional) | `xoxb-...` |
| **WhatsApp Token** | Business API token (optional) | Various formats |

### 🧠 AI/LLM API Keys
| Parameter | Description | Example |
|-----------|-------------|---------|
| **Anthropic Key** | **REQUIRED** - From Anthropic Console | `sk-ant-api03-...` |
| **OpenAI Key** | Optional - For GPT models | `sk-...` |
| **Groq Key** | Optional - For fast inference | `gsk_...` |
| **Cohere Key** | Optional - Additional AI models | Various formats |

### 🌐 External Service Tokens (All optional)
| Parameter | Description | Example |
|-----------|-------------|---------|
| **ElevenLabs Key** | For text-to-speech | Various formats |
| **Brave Search Key** | Enhanced web search | Various formats |
| **GitHub Token** | Repository interactions | `ghp_...` |
| **Notion Key** | Workspace integrations | `secret_...` |

### 🔗 Gateway & Federation (Advanced)
| Parameter | Description | Example |
|-----------|-------------|---------|
| **Gateway Token** | Multi-instance federation | Various formats |
| **Webhook Secret** | Incoming webhook auth | Various formats |

### ⚙️ Infrastructure Settings
| Parameter | Description | Example |
|-----------|-------------|---------|
| **CPU** | Container CPU allocation | `1.0` (recommended) |
| **Memory** | Container memory allocation | `2Gi` (recommended) |
| **Log Retention** | How long to keep logs | `30` days |

**⚠️ Important:** 
- At least one messaging platform token is required
- Anthropic API key is required and must start with `sk-ant-`
- All other tokens are optional but enable additional features

---

## 📖 After Deployment

### Check if it's working

**For Discord:**
1. **Find your bot** in Discord - it should show as "Online"
2. **Send a message** like "Hello!" - it should respond

**For Telegram:**
1. **Open your bot** in Telegram (search for @YourBotName)
2. **Send a message** like "Hello!" - it should respond

**Both platforms:**
3. **Check logs** using the Container App URL from deployment outputs

### Troubleshooting

**Discord bot appears offline?**
- Wait 2-3 minutes for startup
- Check Container App logs in Azure Portal
- Verify Discord token is correct
- Make sure bot has proper permissions in your Discord server

**Telegram bot doesn't respond?**
- Make sure you disabled "Group Privacy" for your bot (see setup guide)
- Try typing `/start` to your bot first
- Check that the token format is correct (numbers:letters)

**Bot doesn't respond on either platform?**
- Check Anthropic API key is valid
- Check Container App logs for errors
- Verify bot tokens are entered correctly

**Form validation errors?**
- **Discord Token**: Should be ~59 characters, starts with `MT` or `MQ`
- **Telegram Token**: Should be ~45 characters, format `123456789:ABCdef...`
- **Slack Token**: Should start with `xoxb-` for bot tokens
- **Anthropic Key**: **REQUIRED** - Must start with `sk-ant-` (api03-, oat01-, etc.)
- **OpenAI Key**: Should start with `sk-` (if provided)
- **Groq Key**: Should start with `gsk_` (if provided) 
- **GitHub Token**: Should start with `ghp_` (if provided)
- **Notion Key**: Should start with `secret_` (if provided)
- **⚠️ Must check confirmation box** and provide at least one messaging platform token
- If you see validation errors, check the "Errors" panel on the right →

**Deployment failed?**
- Check all required fields are filled
- **Ensure you provided at least one bot token** (Discord or Telegram)
- Ensure app name is 3-12 characters, letters/numbers only
- Try a different Azure region

**"Unexpected content after function call" error?**
- ✅ **FIXED** - This was a JSON syntax issue that has been resolved
- Make sure you're using the latest template (clear browser cache)
- See [TROUBLESHOOTING.md](./TROUBLESHOOTING.md) for details

For more issues, see the complete **[🔧 Troubleshooting Guide](./TROUBLESHOOTING.md)**

---

## 🛠 Advanced Usage

### Accessing Your Bot's Web Interface
After deployment, you'll get a Container App URL. This provides:
- Real-time logs
- Health status
- Performance metrics

### Updating Your Bot
- Redeploy with the same parameters to get latest updates
- Your data and configuration will be preserved

### Backup and Restore
Your bot's data is stored in Azure Storage. To backup:
1. Download files from the storage account
2. Redeploy if needed and upload files back

### Token Organization
The deployment template now features improved organization:
- **Visual grouping** with clear sections and emoji headers
- **Enhanced validation** with format checking for all token types
- **Comprehensive support** for 10+ services out of the box
- **Security-first design** with all secrets stored in Azure Key Vault
- **Future-proof structure** for easy addition of new integrations

See [TOKEN-ORGANIZATION.md](./TOKEN-ORGANIZATION.md) for detailed documentation.

---

## 🤝 Support

- 🔧 **Troubleshooting**: [TROUBLESHOOTING.md](./TROUBLESHOOTING.md) - Common issues and solutions
- 🐛 **Bug Reports**: [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/aerolalit/openclaw-azure/issues)
- 💬 **Questions**: [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/aerolalit/openclaw-azure/discussions)
- 📖 **Documentation**: [TOKEN-ORGANIZATION.md](./TOKEN-ORGANIZATION.md) - Token guide

---

## 📄 License

MIT License - feel free to fork and customize!

## ⭐ Contributing

We welcome contributions! Whether it's:
- 🐛 Bug fixes
- 📖 Documentation improvements  
- ✨ New features
- 💡 Ideas and suggestions

---

**Made with ❤️ for the AI community**

*Want to make AI assistants accessible to everyone, not just developers.*
